Israel's prime minister Benjamin yato
now who is about to be addressing the
press in the press conference that's
also being held alongside Israel's
defense minister joov galland who's
speaking now that follows the Israeli
airstrikes on Gaza which have killed
three senior leaders of the Islamic
Jihad armed group as well as several
other people including children let's
listen
we're going to multiply
again against many targets
who is going who is going so good
according to the to the strategy Allah
foreign
you're watching Al Jazeera we're
bringing you a live press conference uh
being held by Israel as prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu as well as Israel's
defenseman who's just been speaking a
moment ago and follows the air strikes
on Gaza which have killed three senior
leaders of the Islamic Jihad arms group
as well as several other people the
Israeli security cabinets been meeting
in the last few hours and reports are
that Israel is waiting to see what kind
of retaliation is going to be whether
there's going to be a few hundred
Rockets fired by Islamic Jihad or a far
bigger response from Hamas group that
controls Gaza let's listen
to close the circle with the terrorists
we we are is the end of a military
campaign
a week a week ago when we took when we
took the decision to start the
operations shielded
we're ready to to edit scenario
tonight I say to our enemy
our principally shopping clear whoever
helps us will help him and with
excessive thoughts
we are fighting together
I want to to embrace I want to embrace
the population of South Israel
the Army and the security services
according
I want to I want to thank to to to the
to the defense minister to the to the
chief of the Interior Ministry
which which are staying on the borders
of the county
this is this is this is the main the
main activity of our of our population
and will win
thank you very much
population of Israel good evening
Hana
neighbors has fired against the Israeli
citizens a week ago
this is not only a terror attack
but it's it's against our presence in
our County
we we were we were ready
to stop to stop the criminal activities
of Islamic Jihad
they prepared plenty of Terror attacks
on the West Bank
was responsible for the murder of the
Virtual Families
after attacking us
19 years ago they killed a pregnant a
pregnant woman and her children
in the latest days
in our Direction
services
are fighting against them
and and we reach and we reach everything
which we wanted in our operation
[Music]
who who will try uh will try us he will
see us
tonight we proved
to whom wants to know and to remember
we are going we are going against anyone
who wants to help us
this is what we'll do also in the future
the heavy price
it's what answers that Israel
if the terrorist activities
the cities of Israel
to prime minister Netanyahu
of his help in in preparing this
operation and doing it
I say to Israeli Army to the security
services and to the fighters
of their activity which is very
important in this operation
to the chief of general staff
we are embracing the Israeli Army
the operation which we've done last
night
is going to multiply
to multiply also in other areas
who who will try to to help us
we will find we will find our excessive
faults against them
in the fight against terrible
organizations
we are using our strategy we are our
national strategy
all our operations
foreign
and production plants
for all the information which is
we prepare this operation
against Islamic Jihad
and
we have waited we have waited at the
time and place of our choosing
they want to kill Israeli citizens
during a few years
in other
words
of offensive six against Israel
and will do everything to have our
security
we have we have we have struck the the
tailored points
killing people which are not involved in
the terror organizations
they want but but they they want to kill
innocent people on our part
I'm calling to the Israeli citizens in
South Israel
to listen to things
offensive against the terror
organizations
thank you
and you're watching Al Jazeera we've
been bringing you a live press
conference uh from Tel Aviv which has
been hosted initially by Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israel's
defense minister of Galan but we've just
heard from a senior uh Israeli Defense
Forces uh official there senior officer
um describing the operation that has
been carried out over the last few hours
in Gaza with the airstrikes that uh
identifying some of the targets that
they were aiming for one of which was he
said a workshop for manufacturing
Rockets prior to that we heard the
defense minister yov Gallant talking
about the the broader strategy that um
uh the Israeli forces are taking at the
moment he said in the fight against
Terror organizations we are using our
national strategy he said the ministry
of defense is ready for any scenario and
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu all
right at the start said that he wanted
to embrace the population of South
Israel many of which many of whom have
been moved from their homes to near the
border with Gaza in the uh the
anticipation that there may well be some
sort of response from Gaza he also said
that he wanted to embrace uh the Army as
well I want to bring in our
correspondent Muhammad Jam who's also
been listening to that Muhammad it's
quite clear that um Israel is bracing
itself for some sort of response to come
out of Gaza
it's absolutely right Rob uh key
takeaway here is that um Israeli Prime
Minister benjam Netanyahu was
essentially saying that Israel is
prepared for any response the Prime
Minister said that uh Israeli citizens
must have the fortitude now to
essentially
try and cope with any counter attacks
that might be happening in the days
ahead he also said that if any enemies
of Israel were thinking of planning any
attacks or carrying out any attacks that
they would be met with crushing Force he
also said that the difference between
the Palestinians and Israelis on a day
like today is that when it comes to
Palestinian factions they would actually
Target Israeli civilians whereas when it
comes to the Israeli military according
to prime minister Netanyahu they try to
Target only what they claim to be are
terrorists essentially this is a
response to criticism that in those air
strikes that were carried out early this
morning there were civilians that were
killed alongside those leaders of
Islamic Jihad the prime minister's
remarks were relatively brief really not
in any way unexpected it's basically
what people here thought that they would
hear from him then you had
the Israeli defense minister joov
Gallant who appraised the military uh
went on to talk about how Islamic Jihad
had been responsible for planning
attacks that have been carried out in
the last few weeks and also he said that
they had Intel uh that the Israeli
forces had Intel that uh Islamic Jihad
was working on other attacks that they
were planning to carry out in the days
ahead and that it was an imminent threat
and that's why Israel acted in the way
that it did with those with those air
strikes
aside from that also he just went on to
say that the Israeli forces had acted
with determination and that they would
continue to act against anyone who
planned to threaten the safety of Israel
or Israeli citizens none of this really
coming as a surprise but but as you said
Rob the fact of the matter is Israeli
officials are anticipating that there
will be a response from within Gaza
whether it's in the hours ahead or the
days ahead the big question right now is
who exactly is going to be involved in
that response and how much more of an
escalation might it amount to because
from the Israeli standpoint
um if it's only Islamic Jihad that is
responding to those air strikes then
you're talking about potentially
hundreds of rockets being launched from
Gaza toward Israel if Hamas gets
involved then you're talking about
potentially thousands of rockets that
could be launched from Gaza toward
Israel so that's the calculation that
Israel is making right now and
throughout the day you've had senior
Israeli officials being quoted
anonymously in Israeli media Outlets
essentially saying what happens next is
going to be dependent upon Hamas they're
basically issuing a warning and saying
they don't want Hamas to get involved
that if Hamas gets involved there will
be more of a response from Israel right
now it's very unclear as to what exactly
is going to happen certainly a big
Escalade Nation today this is something
these airstrikes had happened in the
overnight hours in Gaza that was not
anticipated here I can tell you people
were taken very much by surprise but
when we've heard from Israeli officials
throughout the day it's clear that they
planned it prime minister Netanyahu even
said a few hours ago that he had given
the order last week to carry out these
targeted assassinations against the
leadership of Islamic Jihad and Gaza so
right now what's going to happen next
nobody knows people very much on edge
and they're just waiting to see what the
answer is going to be and then what
Israel will do in return
in West Jerusalem Muhammad thank you
very much indeed